---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

### What do I think about open source? 

I’ve always known about open source, but it wasn’t until recently that I really started to appreciate how it drives innovation and collaboration in the tech world.Projects that are open source tend to be successful because they’re built on collaboration and transparency. It’s like the idea that if we all shared what we know and worked together, we’d all benefit. I believe this concept should apply to more than just software - if we were more “open-source” in general, the world would be a better place.

When it comes to open vs. closed source, I think the main advantage of open source is the freedom it gives users and developers. With open source software, anyone can dive into the code, improve it, or customize it to their needs. It’s all about collaboration. On the other hand, I believe that one of the potential drawbacks of open source is that having too many contributors can sometimes lead to inefficiency. More people can mean more ideas, but it can also cause confusion or fragmentation if there isn’t clear coordination.

### Four open source projects

1. **VS Code**
 VS Code is definitely one of the open source projects that has had a big impact on me, and I think it’s influenced a lot of developers in the same way. It’s super easy to use, highly customizable, and efficient, which makes it a perfect example of how open source can create something both practical and powerful.

2. **Git** 
Git has been really helpful for me, especially after learning it last semester. Being open source, it's always improving, and it’s so flexible for managing versions and working with others. Being able to track changes and collaborate smoothly has made me much more organized and efficient. It’s definitely shaped how I approach projects and work with code.

3. **Docker** 
Docker is another very helpful and impactful open source tool I’ve come across, especially when it comes to containerization. It makes it so easy to package and run applications across different environments, ensuring everything works consistently. 

4. **Linux** 
I guess I have to mention the linux operating system as foundation of many operating systems. It's one of the most important open source projects because it powers a huge portion of the world's servers, smartphones, and devices.